Simple Shell
Description of the collaborative simple_shell project
The Simple shell is a command line interface (CLI) for interacting with all Unix-like operating systems. It serves as medium for executing commands and managing processes. It is easy to apply and understand. The simple shell project helps students to build a custom shell using C language. The functions generated perform simple tasks including exit, concatenating strings, tokenizing, and handling all command line arguments.
Features
a. Built-in command: Built-in commands includes cd, pwd, ls, mkdir, rm, touch, exit and so on.
b. Piping: This term is used to describe "|" operator, which combines different commands.
c. Managing processes: It manage processes and run programs in background.
d. Redirection: It is used to redirect the input and output given in the program.
e. Execution of command: It is used to execute commands and different types of program.
f. Simple syntax: The syntax is very easy and is similar to the Unix-like shell.
g. Scripting: It allows the use of sequences of shell command while added in a file for customization
h. Customization: It allow Users to me able to customize the environment variable.
Getting Started
1. Clone the Github repository.
2. Add a README.md and README(documentation).
3. Generate AUTHORS file.
4. Run scripts and debug.
Usage
1. Open a terminal.
2. Launch the shell program.
3. Apply the Built-in command on the shell system.
4. Use prefered text editor to write codes.
Documentation
1. Managing processes: It runs and checks different programs.
2. Execution of command: It is used to execute commands and different kind of program.
3. Simple syntax: The syntax is very easy and is similar to the Unix_like shell.
4. Customization: It is user friendly and can be customized differently.
5. Scripting: It allows concatenation of comands to different file paths.
Guide for configuration
1. Setting environment variable.
2. Creating aliases for different commands.
3. Startup scripts.
4. Advance configuration.
Contribution
This project was completed by Faith Akinyi and Emma Ogutu.
Acknowledgement
This Simple Shell Project was inspired by Linux.
